# DEV LOG

Where to start?

Requirements/Specs?

We do have a working model to clone. It should serve as specs.

Should we write down specs in words?

Perhaps.

Write specs:
Where to start?
Why write specs?


Q: why are we cloning the project.
A: To showcase how to build a real world game in elm.
and the steps we go through to build it.

Why write specs?
A: To gain clarity on the scope. All toplevel subsystems. Big Picture. 
Again Why? Perhaps that can help us in not getting bogged down in less important things.
Big picture can help us keep current task in perspective, 
help us allocate proportional focus and time. 

specs: Where to start?
A: list down all toplevel systems that come to mind.
# Pages:
## Predefined Puzzles
* List with some details of selected puzzle.
* global puzzle stats, current user puzzle stats, friends puzzle stats.
* 3 solutions storage per puzzle
* direct editing of solution in serialized text format.
* Solve puzzle screen
  * Desc
  * IO
  * Debug/Run: Controls
  * Nodes with status
  * Edit node source
## Custom Puzzle
* CRUD for Puzzle specs & IO.
* Other screens same as Built-in puzzles. except for stats.
* Stats section is replaced with advanced editing support.
## Navigation & menu
* quick help
* external help
* Navigate across pages
* Exit.

Next Step?
* watch rich hickey's talk on "Hammock Driven Development - Rich Hickey"

What is the problem that needs solving?
* clone tis 100
* Are you sure?
* 100%

Next Step:
where do we start?
understand!
what do we know?
what don't we know?
what are the constraints.

Reflect:
* Not fun.
* Perhaps, before writing code, we might want to write algo pseudocode.




node communication:
Every node has 4 out ports.
fact: if running, a node is always able to write to its out port.
i.e. when a write-instruction is executed, destination port is always writable. 
Justification:
after writing, the node goes in write block mode, until that value is read.
i.e. next instruction is not executed until the written value is read.

Therefore, we can model 4 out ports and its value as a single type.
This also allows us to add 5th Value `Any`.
`Any` implies that the out value can be read by any one of the neighbouring nodes.

Modeling port read and write instructions.

Write:
* MOV STATIC Port
Read:
* MOV PORT STATIC
* Add PORT
* SUB PORT
Read then Write.
* Mov PORT PORT

Executing Instructions:
* An instruction can be executed across multiple clock tics.
* if we are able to execute some part of the instruction, in a given tick,
  then node is not considered idle, for that cycle.
Implications:
* Simple write instructions, will always run when first encountered.
* But will not complete till out port is empty.
* Also write port/value is only available when node is in write block mode.
* i.e. it's not a value that's always available.
* Simple read instructions, may or may not run when first encountered.
  depending on src port being available for read.
* Compound io instruction will have to maintain state indicating what is pending.
* execution is conditional on current instruction and current read/write state.

How do we model instruction and its partial execution state.

type ExeNodeState = 
    ReadBlocked RI <info>
    WriteBlocked RI <info>

where 
* RI => type RunningInstructions: better name??
* `<info>` => all information from the current instruction 
  so that we never have to look at current instruction again.

functionality we need from type RI. 
* advance: next instruction to run after current.
* jump: Jump to label / relative offset.
* currentSourceCodeLineNumber: for display.

Compiling Source Code, modeling instructions.
* One to One mapping. Pros/Cons?
* One to many mapping. Pros/Cons?

We need to figure out all the cases/types of instructions first.
Single Step:
* NOP
* SWP
* SAV
* NEG

Single Step after Label Resolution
* JMP LABEL
* J*Z LABEL

COMPLEX: Multi-step, may require IO.
* MOV SRC DST
* ADD SRC
* SUB SRC
* JRO SRC

ARGUMENTS:
* SRC -> NUM/PORT/ACC
* DST -> PORT/ACC
* LABEL -> Arbitrary String, instruction prefix in source code.

* PORT: DIR/ANY/LAST/NIL
* NUM: -999 to 999

DEALING WITH LABEL:
we could augment/replace label with relative offset in jump instructions.
* JMP LABEL => `JRO_` label-offset
* J*Z LABEL => `J*Z_` label-offset
* this approach might help us avoid maybe's. 
  by using JRO default behaviour.
Or we could do simple iteration checking for label. 
* assuming compilation step ensured label will be found.

Or we could use some addressing scheme and jump to memory address.
* this will require a separate internal instruction set.
* Or perhaps internal instruction set is all that we will have.
* And source code will be transformed to it directly.
* But we might have to do multi pass to replace labels with address.
* Perhaps this will make it complicated.
* Perhaps we could convert labels to instruction numbers. pre parsing.

Choosing how to deal with label might depend on how we choose to model
parsing & internal instruction storage. Making this a cyclic problem :)


Back to Modeling Instructions:
Output of successfully compiled source code.
type EXE = EXE (List MetaInst)
type alias MetaInst = {lineNo: LNO, labels: LABELS, inst: INST}

Modeling NODE EXE Context with types.

Observations:
* instead of updating nec directly, we should wrap it in functions.
* we need to gain clarity on what wrapper update/ other functions will do.
  Perhaps, we can write down the docs for them.

# Facts: How "Port Read" works?
* when running an inst if src port value is available for read
  node will not enter read block mode.
* the end state in such cases will be running.
* only when src port value is not available will the node enter
  read block mode.

Observations:
* we could potentially enter read block, 
  and then try to resolve all nodes in read block mode. 

# Facts: How "Port Write" works?
* only mov inst is capable of writing to ports.
* out ports are always available for writing.
* Regardless, any write will put node in write block state.
  until the next step.

# Facts: Any read/write
* when `ANY` src/dst port value is resolved, `LAST` reg needs
  to be updated.

# How to resolve/update nodes with read/write interdependency
* all nodes can be updated one at a time.
* if node is already in write block, let it stay in pending.
* if updated node is in write block state, move it to resolved.
* else if updated node is in read block state.
  try resolving the read, from pending nodes.
* if resolved move both node to resolved.
* else move updated node to resolved.
* once all nodes have been iterated once.
* move all pending nodes to resolved.
* since the pending list will only contain, previously
  write blocked nodes, who still didn't get resolved.
  
